Hey, what's up everybody?
For those of you who don't know me, my name is Jeremy Treat.
I'm one of the pastors here at Reality LA.
And if you've got a Bible, go ahead and grab it and open it up to the book of Philippians.
And as you turn there, I want to take a minute to talk about the offering.
Offering really is a good way of talking about what we're doing here because our giving is an act of worship to God.
We ultimately give to God for the work of God and to the glory of God.
And this enables us to then fulfill our mission as a church and to practically meet needs in our community and throughout the city.
And there's so many needs right now in the midst of this pandemic.
And so it might be easy for you to think, well, by myself, what can I do?
Well, there is only so much that we can do as individuals, but together we can do a lot.
And so this is a way that we give to be able to show God's love and provision in so many ways.
If you want to give
The way to do that is through the push pay app.
So if you have a smartphone, you just go to the app store and look for push pay.
And then once you download that, you search for reality LA and it's pretty easy to set up and give there.
And thank you for your giving.
The Lord is doing a good work and you're involved in it in that way.
Okay, let's grab our Bibles and look at Philippians chapter one.
We're in a series right now in the book of Philippians that we're calling Defiant Joy because in this pandemic,
It's Jesus, not our circumstances, that determines our joy.
And so today I'll be preaching on Philippians 1, verses 12 through 18, and we will be talking about resilient faith.
So I'll read that passage for us, and then I'll open our time in prayer.
Philippians 1, verses 12 through 18.
I want you to know, brothers, that what has happened to me has really served to advance the gospel.
so that it has become known throughout the whole imperial guard and to all the rest that my imprisonment is for Christ.
And most of the brothers, having become confident in the Lord by my imprisonment, are much more bold to speak the word without fear.
Some indeed preach Christ from envy and rivalry, but others from good will.
The latter do it out of love, knowing that I am put here for the defense of the gospel.
The former proclaimed Christ out of selfish ambition, not sincerely,
But thinking to afflict me in my imprisonment.
What then?
Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed.
And in that, I rejoice.
This is God's word.
Let's pray together.
Lord, as we proclaim Christ during this time, we pray that the gospel would advance in our hearts and our communities and in this city.
Lord, we need you.
We are desperate for you, especially in this time where there's so much suffering, there's so much uncertainty, there's so much loss.
We look to you as our hope, as our Savior, as our King who is ruling right now.
God, we pray that as your word is preached, that your spirit would be at work within us, bringing change in our lives, bringing renewal and restoration.
And God, would you draw us into the work
that you're doing.
We look to you and we pray this in Jesus name.
Amen.
Well, now is the time more than ever that we need resilience.
And if you look that word up in the dictionary, it will tell you that resilience is the ability to withstand or recover from difficult conditions.
But I like to think about it like bamboo.
See, some plants or trees are really strong, but they're not very flexible.
While there's other plants that are really flexible but they're not strong.
Well bamboo is strong and it's flexible.
If strong winds come, the bamboo can bend but not be broken.
It can actually be pressed all the way to the ground but it bounces back to where it was before.
That is resilience.
And that's exactly what we need right now.
We've been bent and pressed and left wondering whether we'll be able to bounce back at all.
And so the question is this, how can we withstand and recover from the loss and uncertainty that we're all experiencing right now because of the coronavirus?
Well, in our passage today in Philippians 1, we're going to see that this kind of internal resilience is ultimately found in the gospel.
And for the apostle Paul, he's experiencing some very difficult conditions.
He's been imprisoned by a pagan government
And now he's being attacked by fellow Christians.
It's hard to imagine a tougher situation.
And yet Paul has this unflinching confidence in God and a defiant joy in the face of adversity.
So we're going to see how the gospel produced resilience for Paul in imprisonment and in opposition.
And then we'll apply that to our situation today in a pandemic.
So first, let's look and see how the gospel produced resilience for Paul in imprisonment.
Let me read to you verse 12 once more.
Paul says, I want you to know, brothers, that what has happened to me has really served to advance the gospel.
So he's in prison, but the question is, why is he there?
Well, from one perspective, he's there because he got arrested for preaching the gospel and then one government official kind of passed him on to the next and he appealed to Rome and they passed him on to the next and then eventually guards placed him in the prison, probably attaching him by chain to a Roman guard.
At one level, that's why he's in prison.
But Paul's saying, there's a deeper reason that I'm here.
I'm not here because of Caesar's power, but because of God's power.
I'm not here for Rome's purposes, but for God's purposes.
This isn't about stopping the gospel.
This is actually advancing the gospel.
And this is incredible, isn't it?
I mean, the worst possible situation is pagan government is attacking him.
People in the church are attacking him and Paul doesn't ask, is God at work?
No, he asks, how is God at work?
He believes in the absolute sovereignty of God.
He knows.
that God works all things together for the good of those who love him.
He knows God is working out his plan that he established before the foundations of the world.
But here's the key.
It's not that God is accomplishing his purposes in spite of hardship.
No, God accomplishes his purposes through hardship.
That's the key to having the kind of resilience that we need.
Think about what Paul says.
My imprisonment
is for Christ.
How can he say that?
Come on, is that just spin?
Is he just making a bad situation sound good to help weak people get through it?
No, the gospel truly is being advanced through his imprisonment.
Let me show you three ways that the gospel is being advanced through his imprisonment here.
And the first is, is that through his imprisonment, he's able to witness to the Roman guards.
Look at verse 13, he says,
so that it has become known throughout the whole Imperial Guard and to all the rest that my imprisonment is for Christ.
So these guards that it's talking about there would have included up to 9,000 Roman guards and he's saying they're all talking about it.
They've all heard, have you heard of this apostle who's imprisoned for Christ?
But while it would have spread broad to many people who were talking about it,
I want you to specifically think about the Roman guards who are with Paul and responsible for him.
I mean, Paul's got a history of this, right?
Remember back in Acts 16 at the beginning of the church plant of the church in Philippi?
How did it start?
Well, one of the key members early on in the church was a jailer who Paul converted.
Him and Silas were singing songs and praying, and then they convert this jailer.
I mean, can you imagine the jailer back in Philippi hearing about this now?
Paul's in prison.
Oh, I bet he's gonna convert those guys.
Like he just knows there must have been, Paul must have been just like licking his chops.
Like all of a sudden, you know, he's chained to this Roman garden.
He's probably thinking, I'm not chained to you.
You're chained to me.
Let me tell you about Jesus.
Have you heard about this Messiah?
He's the one who was killed by your co-workers, Roman centurions and yet who said, Father forgive them for they know not what they do.
He's probably saying to them, did you know that he rose from the grave that even death couldn't stop Jesus?
So Paul is preaching the gospel to the guards who are right there with them and think about it.
How else would anyone preach the gospel to those people?
Paul can look at that and say clearly, my imprisonment is advancing the gospel, but not only as that happening through sharing with the guards, but also by strengthening fellow believers to speak boldly.
So look at verse 14.
He goes on and he says, most of the brothers, having become confident in the Lord by my imprisonment, are much more bold to speak the word without fear.
So many Christians were timid and scared during this time.
It makes sense.
You could get persecuted for your faith.
But Paul was so bold in doing this that it emboldens them.
They're feeling more brave.
They're willing to go out and share the word and proclaim Christ without fear.
And so think about what's happened.
You've gone from Paul preaching boldly
Well, now he's in prison, but now you've gone from just one man preaching boldly to dozens, maybe hundreds who are out there preaching boldly.
So the gospel is clearly advancing in that way.
There's one other way that I want to show you though, that the gospel is advancing through Paul's imprisonment and you kind of have to zoom out to see the broader context of this a little bit more.
Paul is likely in prison in Rome.
And if you go back and read through the book of Acts,
Paul was bent on getting to Rome, the most influential city in the ancient world.
He wanted to be able to get there to preach the gospel.
And how does he get there?
Well, he's taken, he's escorted by these Roman guards.
So it's clear that the gospel is being advanced through his imprisonment.
But we've still got to ask the question, how could Paul have such confidence in such dire circumstances?
Well, I'll tell you,
He'd been reading the Old Testament for a long time.
He'd been reading stories of the kind of God that he worshiped.
He would have read about Joseph.
Remember what happened to Joseph in the book of Genesis?
He's sold into slavery by his brothers.
He gets thrown into a pit.
He's eventually placed in prison.
He's in prison for years.
And yet it's very clear looking back at the Lord is at work in all of this.
And so you get to the end of the book of Genesis.
And Joseph says to his brothers what you meant for evil, God meant for good, for the saving of many lives.
Paul knew about these stories and he was encouraged by it.
Maybe Paul was thinking about the times that he'd read about David, hiding in the caves, isolated, confused, threatened, and yet knowing that God was preparing him to be king.
Maybe Paul was thinking about the time where the prophet Jeremiah was thrown into a dungeon and yet he continued to boldly proclaim God's word to his people of being faithful and exile.
See, when we read the Bible, we are reading a story of a God who accomplishes his purposes, not in spite of hardship, but through hardship.
And the pinnacle of that story, of course, is the cross of Christ.
I mean, there's not a worse situation imaginable.
than the world rebelling against its Creator.
And when the Son of God comes in love, they kill Him out of hatred and pride.
And yet, while the cross is the most ugly display of our sin, it's the most beautiful display of God's grace.
Because it was there on the cross where Jesus took on our sin to blot it out.
It was there on the cross where Jesus accomplished victory through sacrifice and it was there on the cross where Jesus showed his perfect love and justice.
That's why Paul can be imprisoned and yet have the confidence of a man who's been set free because he has this faith in the crucified and risen Christ.
And faith doesn't just mean believing in something that you can't see.
Faith is looking at things from a different perspective altogether.
Paul was in prison, but from his perspective, he could say, I'm not a captive prisoner.
You're my captive audience.
He could say, you didn't drag me to a place I didn't want to go.
I was escorted on Rome's dime, by the way, to the place that I wanted to go all along.
He could say, your persecution is not slowing down Christ's mission.
It's propelling it forward.
That's why Paul can say, my imprisonment is for Christ.
Now, I want to apply this to our circumstance today and what we are all experiencing.
And think about it like this, imprisonment for Paul was an unwanted circumstance that was placed on him against his will, right?
And we all have circumstances that are thrust upon us against our will.
And yet Paul can say,
my imprisonment is for Christ.
So what would it look like for you to take into account the circumstances that have been thrust upon you and to say, it's for Christ?
Well, there's one that most of us have in common and that's we're in quarantine right now.
How can we say my quarantine is for Christ?
I mean, you know, Paul's in prison, we're in quarantine.
You can't really compare prison to quarantine.
I mean,
I've gotten a tele in my house.
And it's the Costco size, all right?
So I can't really say like, I can't complain about being trapped there.
And yet there are similarities right between quarantine and prison.
I mean, isolation, you're stuck inside.
It's an unwanted circumstance.
So what does it look like for us to say my quarantine is for Christ?
Or to be able to say my sickness is for Christ.
My unemployment is for Christ.
And you can say that.
Because God is at work.
You may be alone, but you're not abandoned.
You may feel the pressure, but you're not crushed.
You may have sorrow, but you're not dismayed.
And you may feel the uncertainty of tomorrow, but you don't have to be afraid of it.
The gospel produces resilience precisely for times like these.
All right, so we see how the gospel produces resilience in Paul's imprisonment.
Now let's see how the gospel produces resilience amidst opposition.
Let me read to you verses 15 through 18.
Paul says this, some indeed preach Christ from envy and rivalry, but others from good will.
The latter do it out of love, knowing that I am put here for the defense of the gospel.
The former proclaimed Christ out of selfish ambition.
Not sincerely, but thinking to afflict me in my imprisonment."
What then?
Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in that, I rejoice.
Now, I want you to understand what was going on here.
First of all, I don't think he's talking about false teachers and non-Christians who are proclaiming a false gospel.
He has other words for that, and Paul speaks very strongly against that when that's the case.
No, he's talking about Christians who are actually proclaiming the gospel, but their motives are off.
And what I think is going on here is that in Paul's absence, it appears that other preachers are jockeying for position.
They're fighting for prominence and worldly honor, and they're putting Paul down in order to build themselves up.
So, so Paul looks at that and why is he saying this though?
Well, I mean, he acknowledges it for what it is, like gross, right?
like people are preaching for bad motives, whatever.
But his point is Christ has preached nonetheless.
I mean, it says if he's saying, listen, God spoke through a donkey in the Old Testament, he can use a preacher with mixed motives.
And here's what struck me about these verses.
Sometimes Christians can be more brutal than centurions.
I mean, Paul is in prison, right?
The guards are one thing.
But his fellow Christians are taking shots at him in this.
How hypocritical and hurtful.
And I say this because I know that many of you have wounds from people like this in the church.
It's not just preachers with bad motives.
Those preachers who are preaching out of envy and rivalry create churches that are tribalistic and prideful.
That leads to a lot of wounds for a lot of people.
And so if you've experienced that, then I'm deeply sorry for that.
I want to acknowledge that.
But let's look at the passage here.
What is the point that Paul is making in this text?
The point is, is that the gospel advances nonetheless.
In other words, God uses an imperfect church to accomplish his perfect plans.
The Bible is not a story of God finding perfect people, but of saving sinful people.
And this gives me so much hope.
I can look at the church in America and there's lots of problems.
There's lots of mixed motives in preachers and in Christians, right?
I can look at our church and I can see lots of problems and I can see lots of mixed motives even in my own heart.
And yet I can know that God is at work.
God's not looking for perfect people.
He's looking for broken people who are willing to trust in Him.
This is the kind of faith we need to be resilient in a time like this.
So we've seen how the gospel produces resilience in imprisonment and in opposition.
But what about in a pandemic?
Well, first of all, we've got to acknowledge that this is just hard.
We as Christians, we can have a sense of realism about what's going on right now.
Paul does that.
He doesn't minimize the fact that he's in prison.
He doesn't leave that out when he writes this letter to the Philippians.
And we can be honest about all of this.
It's brutal.
And the hard part is it seems like we've got a long way to go.
I mean, to put it bluntly, this sucks.
I mean, for me personally, I miss people.
I'm so tired of Zoom and I'm lamenting the loss all around.
But I want to remind you that the Lord has not forgotten about us.
And we don't need to ask, is God at work?
No, the question is, how is God at work?
And we can ask that question because we know this.
Remember, he accomplishes his purposes, not in spite of hardship, but through hardship.
And there's a lot that's stopped in our world right now.
But I want to remind you that the mission of Christ has not stopped.
There's so many things going on right now.
There are evidence of that.
I mean, just in the last month, I have heard many stories of people getting saved and having their lives changed by Jesus.
We've got new people joining our church.
We've got a new community group that's starting up soon and probably more to come.
We're crying out in prayer.
We've got regional prayer coming up this week next week or in a couple of weeks.
We're going to be appointing several new deacons in our church.
The mission goes on.
God is at work.
The gospel is advancing.
The gospel can't be stopped by imprisonment.
The gospel can't be stopped by opposition.
The gospel can't be stopped by disease.
The gospel can't be stopped by recession.
No, the Lord is calling us to move forward, to advance even in this.
I do want to qualify one thing that I've said in the last few weeks based on the context, especially this passage that we're looking at in Philippians 1.
I've talked about how this is a time as a church where we don't want to just survive, but we want to thrive.
And I really believe that, but I want to make sure that when we hear thriving as a church,
that we don't hear that in worldly means of like bigger and better and flashy and everything's awesome and easy and safe and comfortable.
No, we see Paul here saying that the gospel is advancing.
The church is growing.
There's life.
It's thriving in that sense.
And yet he's in prison.
The church in Philippi is being persecuted in different ways.
So I really believe that we can advance.
I mean, the word that's used here for advancing in Philippians 1 means to move forward, to progress.
And I believe that we can do that, but that means us learning to depend on the Lord more than we ever have.
That means us trusting in God, growing in our faith through this hardship, looking to Him, having more of a heart of compassion for the hurting around us and being a part of the work that the Lord is doing in this city.
I mean, this pandemic has been a disruption to everything in our world.
And yet I think that the Lord has used it to reveal some things in our lives that we might otherwise miss.
Being forced to slow down shows us how addicted we all were to accomplishments.
The quiet makes us look back and realize that we had so much noise in our lives that we rarely reflected on what's most important.
The isolation.
makes us recognize how we've taken relationships for granted in so many ways.
So much has been stripped away during this time and we're faced with the question, what are we without all of our accomplishments and our social lives and our work?
And those things, they're not bad things, work and social lives and accomplishments, they're not bad things.
But God is teaching us what matters most in life
is not dependent on changing circumstances.
God is with you.
God loves you.
And God is teaching you and forming you and shaping you during this time.
Now I started off talking about the meaning of resilience and I even gave you a definition for the word.
What I didn't tell you is that
The English word resilience comes from the Latin word that literally means to bounce back.
It's this idea of when you get knocked down, you get back up, you bounce back.
Well, there's no greater example of resilience than this.
Jesus was crucified, and then he was placed in a tomb.
And three days later, he walked out of that tomb, conquering death
itself.
This is the great reversal.
They tried to humiliate Jesus and it became his exaltation.
They tried to make death his end, but it turned into a doorway to life.
He took on all the hatred of the world and turned it into the greatest act of love for the world.
And so the main message that I want you to hear today isn't be resilient.
What I want you to hear
is that Christ is resilient, and I want to call you to trust in Him.
That's how we can be a resilient people in such a trying time as this.
Let's pray together.
God, we thank you for what you've done for us in sending your son, Jesus Christ, that He entered into our pain, He entered into our uncertainty, He entered into our brokenness,
And he went to the cross taking on our sin so that we could be forgiven.
And he rose from the grave so that we can have new life and abundant life and eternal life.
And we can have that today.
And so God, we thank you that when we rebelled against you that you didn't give up on us.
Thank you that when we ran from you, you kept pursuing us.
And so God, we pray that you would give us faith today.
to surrender to you, to trust in you.
And Lord, as we do that, would you produce resilience at a heart?
God, we're weary.
We're tired.
We don't know when this is going to change or how this is going to play out.
And so we look to you and we pray that in our weakness that you would make us strong.
God, I pray for those who are on the verge of giving up, that they would press on.
that they would stand firm, that they would endure as they look to Christ.
We pray this in His name.
Amen.